[Docs] How to add product variants by options to the cart in Sylius API? (#12451)
Sylius/Sylius: docs/api/unified_api/add_to_cart_product_chosen_by_product_options.rst

> Add to cart product chosen by product options

Reviewer: How to add product variants to the cart in Sylius API?

Reviewer 2: How to add product variants by options to the cart in Sylius API?

=============================================

> In Sylius API to add product to the cart you need fill body request with ``productCode`` and ``productVariantCode``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In  order to add a product variant to the cart in the Sylius API, you need to fill the "add to cart" request's body with ``productCode`` and ``productVariantCode``
```

> You can find this data in body of response which is received after the request below is sent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find this data in the body of the response which is received after the request below is sent.
```

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "https://master.demo.sylius.com/api/v2/shop/products?page=1&itemsPerPage=30" -H  "accept: application/ld+json"

> But in real shops the most common case is choosing ``product variant`` by product options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But the most common case is choosing a product variant by its product options.
```

> So below you can find all requests needed to get ``product variant`` with chosen product options values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So below you can find all requests needed to get the product variant of a product with chosen product options values.
```

> In this example we want to add to cart `small` and `petite` dress.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we will be adding an "S" (in size) and "petite" (in height) "Beige strappy summer dress" to the cart.
```

> Firstly you need to get details of product:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly you need to get details of the "Beige strappy summer dress" product by its code:
```

.. code-block:: bash

    curl -X GET "https://master.demo.sylius.com/api/v2/shop/products/Beige_strappy_summer_dress" -H  "accept: application/ld+json"

> Now you can see that this dress has 2 ``product options``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the response you will see that this product has 2 product options:
```

.. code-block:: json

    "options": [
        "/api/v2/shop/product-options/dress_size",
        "/api/v2/shop/product-options/dress_height"
      ],

> With this data you can check all available ``product option values`` for each ``product option``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this data you can check all the available product option values for each product option:
```

.. code-block:: bash
    curl -X GET "https://master.demo.sylius.com/api/v2/shop/product-options/dress_size" -H  "accept: application/ld+json"

> And available option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response with all the available option values would be:
```

.. code-block:: json

    "values": [
        "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/dress_s",
        "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/dress_m",
        "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/dress_l",
        "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/dress_xl",
        "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/dress_xxl"
      ],

> In the same way you can check values for ``dress_height``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the same way, you can check values for the other option - ``dress_height``.
```

> Now, with all necessary data you can find ``Beige strappy summer dress`` `small` and `petite` variant

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, with all necessary data, you can find the "Beige strappy summer dress" product's "small" and "petite" variant
```

> You need to call get on ``ProductVariant`` collection with parameters: `productName` and with all options value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need to call a GET on the product variants collection with parameters: ``productName`` and with the chosen option values:
```

.. code-block:: bash

>     curl -X GET "https://master.demo.sylius.com/api/v2/shop/product-variants?product=%2Fapi%2Fv2%2Fshop%2Fproducts%2FBeige_strappy_summer_dress&

Author: TBH I am not sure, this `curl` was generated by swagger, and I passed it here.

optionValues%5B%5D=%2Fapi%2Fv2%2Fshop%2Fproduct-option-values%2Fdress_height_petite&

> optionValues%5B%5D=%2Fapi%2Fv2%2Fshop%2Fproduct-option-values%2Fdress_s&page=1&itemsPerPage=30" -H  "accept: application/ld+json"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
optionValues%5B%5D=%2Fapi%2Fv2%2Fshop%2Fproduct-option-values%2Fdress_s&page=1" -H  "accept: application/ld+json"
```
is this part of the request required?

.. warning::

>     When you add only part of configured ``product option value`` to parameters in response you may get collection with more than single object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When you search by only some of the product's option values in the response you may get a collection with more than one object.
```

> In response you will get collection with only one item:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the response you should get a collection with only one item:
```

.. code-block:: json
    "hydra:member": [
    {
      "id": 579960,
      "code": "Beige_strappy_summer_dress-variant-0",
      "product": "/api/v2/shop/products/Beige_strappy_summer_dress",
      "optionValues": [
        "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/dress_s",
        "/api/v2/shop/product-option-values/dress_height_petite"
      ],
      "translations": {
        "en_US": {
          "@id": "/api/v2/shop/product-variant-translation/579960",
          "@type": "ProductVariantTranslation",
          "id": 579960,
          "name": "S Petite",
          "locale": "en_US"
        }
      },
      "price": 7693

> And with this information you can add chosen ``product variant`` to cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And with this information, you can add the chosen ``product variant`` to the cart.

```
